So the app that we're going to build for this course is going to be a social media type application
where users can create posts, they can read other people's posts, they'll be able to perform all the
CRUD operations. So they're able to create, read, update and delete posts. And we'll also be able to
vote on posts. So you know, most social media apps have some sort of like system or voting system.
And so we will be able to like other users' posts as well. So this is the built-in documentation
that comes with FastAPI. And you'll be able to see all of the API endpoints that we're going to
create in this course. So we're going to have all of the post endpoints, which are going to be
responsible for retrieving all posts, creating posts, retrieving an individual post, updating a
post, as well as deleting a post. Then we'll have the user-specific endpoints of things like creating
a user, getting a user's information. And then we've got our authentication, which is going to
be used for logging in. And then finally, we've got the one for voting. So when you want to vote
on a specific post that you like, you can go ahead and like that post. So let's just
use the documentation to actually, you know, test out our API. So first things first, let's actually
try to retrieve any or all of our posts. So if I hit this GET button right here, we can actually
try to send a request to our API with the built-in documentation. So you could just say execute,
right, and you'll see that we got a 401, which means that we are right now not logged in. So
we are unauthorized to retrieve any of the posts. So the API that we're going to build is going to
require all users to be logged in to even be able to read the posts. So let's actually go
ahead and create a user. And so we'll go down to the users' endpoint under create user. And I'm
going to do try it out. And it's going to give us an example of the structure of the data that we
have to send to our API to create a user. So we need to provide a username or an email and a
password. So I'm going to create an email, I'll call this john@gmail.com. And the password is
going to be something simple just for demonstration purposes. And we'll execute that, right, so it'll
actually send that data back to our backend, you can see we get a 201, which means we were
successfully able to create it, you can see the ID of the user account that was created,
we can see the email is what it is. And then we can see the date that it was created at as well.
And so now we can actually log in as this user. So there's a couple of different ways to log in,
I can go to the login endpoint, or we can just go up here at the top and just do authorize.
And then we can provide that information. So I'll do john@gmail.com.
And we'll provide his password. And if we do authorize now,
we can see that we have successfully logged in. So I'll close this out.
And so now if I try to retrieve the posts, and then hit execute, you can see that we were able
to retrieve all of the posts in our database. Right now, there's only two. But you can see that
these were created by some other users like Sanjeev Thiyagarajan, in this case, and then Sanjeev 123.
And if we want to create our own posts, we can go ahead and do that. So I'll go to the create post
endpoint. And we'll do try it out. And it's going to give us an example here. So we have to provide
title, content, as well as is this post going to be published? Or is it going to be a draft?
And you'll actually see the structure of this schema, right down here.
I think it's at the bottom, actually. So if you go to post create here,
this is going to show us the schema that we have to pass, we have to provide a title,
a content. So this asterisk means it's required, the published is not required. And
you can see that it defaults to true. So if we don't provide a value, it'll default to true.
So let's test that out. And so I'll just say favorite foods is going to be the title.
And the content is going to be pizza and burgers. And I will remove the published section because
it is optional. And I'll default to true anyways. And we'll hit Execute. And if we take a look at
the response, we get a 201, which means it successfully created it. And you can see what
the post looks like in our database, you've got the title content, we can see the published got
defaulted to true, we can see the ID of the post when it was created, we can see the owner ID,
which is you know, who created the post. And so that's the ID of our account, which is 17.
And we can see the information about the owner. So this is john@gmail.com.
And then, you know, as usual, we could perform all the other CRUD operations. So
we can retrieve an individual post, update it and delete it. And then once again,
if we go down here, we can also vote to like a post as well. And so you know,
this kind of forms the backbone of a traditional social media type application.
So once you can really do this, you can really create any application you want. And I think this
covers enough things from an API perspective, as well as from a SQL and database perspective,
that you will have a solid foundation to really build out any API that you're interested in
building out. And so I think that's enough talking, let's get to actually start coding
our application.